>> Evgenii Ray: Okay, REST vs GraphQL,
so generally, when you want to introduce
the GraphQL in your application,
you need to think about the consequences.
So it's you're adding the new client
library to work with the server with
your GraphQL API.
You're adding the new additional client
caching layer that maintains the cache
for you.
And you also add in a new state manager
that ensures that your client is synced
with a server.
And there is also a potential
impact on the web bundle size.
So this is the tax that you pay
when you introduce the GraphQL.
And I would say, GraphQL is great, but
there are use cases when you
actually want to fall back to REST.
So let's go for the schema.
So I try to draw the decision diagram.
[LAUGH] And so first, parameter that you
need to consider is your application size.
If it's a very small app,
then you'll be fine with a classic REST.
You don't need GraphQL,
because GraphQL complicates things.
If it's a medium or
large size app, the next point is,
are you planning to
consider the public API?
If you are planning to build the public
API, then probably the classic REST
is the way to go because most of
the clients expect to have the REST API.
Then the next point is,
how many of your requests are read-only?
So if the good chunk of your request are
read-only and you have a limited budget or
the team size, then the REST would
be better because you will be able
to utilize the default HTTP server
cache and the client cache.
So you would simplify your architecture.
But if you have the large team size or
you have unlimited budget,
you can still go with GraphQL.
But one question you would ask is,
do you use isomorphic types?
Isomorphic types is when your server data
types are shared between the clients,
so they have a very close relation.
So if this is the case,
then the GraphQL might be considered.
If it's not the case, then you need to
do lots of transformation of the data,
then it's probably the classic
REST still better way to go.
And then, is it critical for your bundle
size to be increased by 1,500 kilobytes?
And if it's yes, again, classic REST.
And do you expect to have
your API model to be complex?
Are you expecting to return different
variation of the same object?
In this case, the GraphQL might be a good
decision, so we can choose the GraphQL.
So as you can see, there are more nos
than yes, but let me try to be unbiased.
The GraphQL actually provides
the most values in the Complex Apps.
It's actually can help you to
simplify the architecture sometimes.
Consider the following case
where you have a trading app,
and within this trading API,
you have three endpoints.
One is using short polling,
another one's WebSockets, and so
they get orders that gives you your
current orders, use the short polling.
Real time price,
we're using WebSockets and
getOrderUpdates using
the server-sent events.
So in your web application,
you will have to use three different
ways how you get the updates
from your endpoints.
So you can encapsulate these complexity
on the internal layer by basically,
having the GraphQL that has a subscription
that implements different source stream.
The source stream is just interface of
the endpoint you're going to utilize.
So the source stream can implement
the short polling, the WebSockets,
or server-sent events.
So you can implement this
on the source stream level.
So your developers will use the same
subscription across the whole application,
but internally it will be
backed by different protocols.
So this way,
you can actually simplify the way how
you fetch the data from the server,
minimizing
different code style and
maintaining unified code.
So this is the case where
the GraphQL can really help.
And I stand to the point that the GraphQL
really helps in the Complex Apps
where you have lots of variations of
the data that you receive, and so on.
And for simple cases,
you will be good with a normal REST API.
>> Evgenii Ray: And we're done, this is
the section for network connectivity.
So we basically walk through
the different types of the APIs and
now you have the good overview,
what we can use.
And you definitely need to work with
the server folks to provide you
such endpoints, but it's always good
to understand what are the types of
the protocols available to us.
And the next section will be
the performance optimization of our
application.